README.md, before:

# All my C/C++ tutorials
### Basic C Program execution
A C program consists of 
- Preprocessor command and directive (#include)
- Functions, variable, statements of expression and comments    

Compilation of basic C program [more info here](https://www.scaler.com/topics/execution-of-c-program/)
 - Preprocessing (*.i files) 
 - Compilation (*.s files - assembly files)
 - Assembly (*.o files)
 - Linking - static and dynamic linking(*.dll files)  (Linking of all the *.o files to *.exe)   

 **Make sure to use Debuger in C/C++ programs to code better**  [More info here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJYcRcqPyOw&ab_channel=ProgrammingKnowledge)  
 **Advance debugging skills** [More info here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zSljcz54pYQ&ab_channel=CaseDigital)  

 Command to see the compilation process for C program in GCC.
 ```console 
 gcc -wall -save-temps main.c -o output

 ```

Some other concept of C program are keywords and reserved words. Identifiers are names of functions or variables. Be careful how to declare variable in C as it does not allow special characters such as @, $ etc as identifiers. C programs are case sensitive. Readablity and maintainablity of programs are good things. We can use tools like makefile for large C programs compilations. C program is composed of keywords, identifiers, constants, string literals and symbols.   

### Variable declarations
Different types of variables in C Programming are primary, derived -array,pointer, structure, union etc. and user defined. [more info here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/data-types-in-c/)

int,char,float, double, long,    
Syntax  

> type variable_name1,name2 = value;   

### Operators in C Programming
Arthmatic +,-./.*.%   
bitwise - &,|,^ -xor,<< - shift left,>> - shift right, ~ -one's complement   
logical &&,||,!,    
assigment  =, += (AddAND operator add right operand to left operand and store in the left operand), -=,*=,/=   
relational operators  ==,!=,>=,<=,>,<   
sizeof() operator,  
& - addressOF operator
'*' - pointer declaration and dereferencing operator
?: - conditional expression 
-> - AccessThroughPointer operator

**Very important concept in C is called operator Precedence** [More info Link](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c/language/operator_precedence)   

### Format specifier
Tells the complier about what type of datatype is in a variable.   
Exaples: %d for integer, %f for floating point, %c for character, %l for long, %lf for double, %Lf for long double  etc.    
Another type of format specifiers are **escape sequences** such as \n for newline, \t for tab, \r for carriage return etc.    
And finally we have comments in C **//** for single line comments and /**/ for multiline comments. 

### Constants in C   
Value that cannot be changed is constants. 
>// is the keyword   
> const    

Or we can use #define
> #define   
### Control and consitional statements in C
1. If statement
2. if else statement
3. if   else if   else ladder
4. Switch cases (including default case ) : This avoid too much of if statements.
5. Nested if statements      
6. Nested switch is also possible
```
int expression = 10;
switch (expression) // must be an integer expression or character expression
 {
  case x:
    // code block
    break;   
// it is not a must to have break statements BUT its recomended to use break statements. 
  case y:
    // code block
    break;
  default:
    // code block
}   
```    
### Loops in C 
Used for repeations. There are three major loops
1. for loop
2. While loop (integer and boolean)
3. Do while loop    (integer and boolean) - At least one execution is gaurenteed 
Make sure that you will not enter the infinite loop.   
> break; // statment can be used to break out of the loops and switch cases

Commit message:

infinte loop with while and continue statement

README.md, after:

# All my C/C++ tutorials
### Basic C Program execution
A C program consists of 
- Preprocessor command and directive (#include)
- Functions, variable, statements of expression and comments    

Compilation of basic C program [more info here](https://www.scaler.com/topics/execution-of-c-program/)
 - Preprocessing (*.i files) 
 - Compilation (*.s files - assembly files)
 - Assembly (*.o files)
 - Linking - static and dynamic linking(*.dll files)  (Linking of all the *.o files to *.exe)   

 **Make sure to use Debuger in C/C++ programs to code better**  [More info here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJYcRcqPyOw&ab_channel=ProgrammingKnowledge)  
 **Advance debugging skills** [More info here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zSljcz54pYQ&ab_channel=CaseDigital)  

 Command to see the compilation process for C program in GCC.
 ```console 
 gcc -wall -save-temps main.c -o output

 ```

Some other concept of C program are keywords and reserved words. Identifiers are names of functions or variables. Be careful how to declare variable in C as it does not allow special characters such as @, $ etc as identifiers. C programs are case sensitive. Readablity and maintainablity of programs are good things. We can use tools like makefile for large C programs compilations. C program is composed of keywords, identifiers, constants, string literals and symbols.   

### Variable declarations
Different types of variables in C Programming are primary, derived -array,pointer, structure, union etc. and user defined. [more info here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/data-types-in-c/)

int,char,float, double, long,    
Syntax  

> type variable_name1,name2 = value;   

### Operators in C Programming
Arthmatic +,-./.*.%   
bitwise - &,|,^ -xor,<< - shift left,>> - shift right, ~ -one's complement   
logical &&,||,!,    
assigment  =, += (AddAND operator add right operand to left operand and store in the left operand), -=,*=,/=   
relational operators  ==,!=,>=,<=,>,<   
sizeof() operator,  
& - addressOF operator
'*' - pointer declaration and dereferencing operator
?: - conditional expression 
-> - AccessThroughPointer operator

**Very important concept in C is called operator Precedence** [More info Link](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c/language/operator_precedence)   

### Format specifier
Tells the complier about what type of datatype is in a variable.   
Exaples: %d for integer, %f for floating point, %c for character, %l for long, %lf for double, %Lf for long double  etc.    
Another type of format specifiers are **escape sequences** such as \n for newline, \t for tab, \r for carriage return etc.    
And finally we have comments in C **//** for single line comments and /**/ for multiline comments. 

### Constants in C   
Value that cannot be changed is constants. 
>// is the keyword   
> const    

Or we can use #define
> #define   
### Control and consitional statements in C
1. If statement
2. if else statement
3. if   else if   else ladder
4. Switch cases (including default case ) : This avoid too much of if statements.
5. Nested if statements      
6. Nested switch is also possible
```
int expression = 10;
switch (expression) // must be an integer expression or character expression
 {
  case x:
    // code block
    break;   
// it is not a must to have break statements BUT its recomended to use break statements. 
  case y:
    // code block
    break;
  default:
    // code block
}   
```    
### Loops in C 
Used for repeations. There are three major loops
1. for loop
2. While loop (integer and boolean)
3. Do while loop    (integer and boolean) - At least one execution is gaurenteed 
Make sure that you will not enter the infinite loop.  
> **continue;** // statement is used to just break out of the loop to next iteration by skipping some statements of the codes inside the loops.    
> **break;** // statement can be used to break out of the loops and switch cases
